So let's kinda do, like I said,
the Hello World of an Arduino
also known as does my piece of hardware
work is getting an LED to blink on it.
So we'll do that for a second to kinda
make sure everything is up and running,
and we'll do that the very first
in the actual Arduino tool.
So, here we've got the Arduino IDE.
If you ever use processing,
which is a tool for making art,
based on Java, it should look
very familiar and similar to you.
Like I said, it is C++, but
an abstraction on top of it.
You do have kind of two main methods that
get called, which is setup and loop.
Setup does what you think it does, and
then loop begins to run once
the Arduino is loaded up.
The other thing you can
do is you should see the,
I will tell you only because I have
a stack of boards that it's usually
more helpful to have it plugged
in before you start up the IDE.
So if you do not see your Arduino Uno that
you plugged in after you opened the IDE,
just do the way that you fix
everything with technology.
Quit it, and open it back up, right?
When in doubt,
let's just get this out of the way.
Now, when in doubt, turn it off and
turn it back on, right?
But in this case,
I would just quit the app and reopen it.
It might be there, it might not.
As you can see, I've also got
my Bluetooth incoming port and
a guitar pedal that I used one time.
So now I've switched
it to the Arduino Uno.
And one of the other things that
I will kind of point out now,
is that this menu kind of changes based
on what board you have plugged in.
But you will see these examples where for
the starter kit,
there are a bunch of
prewritten code already there.
So if you wanna practice, if there is
something in the starter kit that you see,
that you just want to wire up and
have the code written for you.
That is an option.
Those are all here, but
if you don't see it,
it is because you do not have the Arduino
Uno selected in that drop-down.
This list of examples will change based
on what board you have plugged in.
And there's a whole bunch of other
different examples that you can kinda
take a look at.
For us right now,
we want to go into Basics and Blink.
All this does, and
we can look at this code real quick and
if the C++ hurts your feelings,
that's okay, it hurts my feelings, too.
But we'll kinda switch over to JavaScript
in a little bit, but I think it makes
sense to kinda look at the basics of how
everything is laid out in this case.
So there is one LED that
is kind of like built in,
it's a tiny little one.
You will see it when it blinks,
how about that?
If you don't see it immediately,
and that one is by definition,
stored for you in a variable called
LED_BUILT_IN, which is good name.
And that is also a euphemism for PIN 13,
which you will also see on your board.
And when I switch over to that camera will
kind of like take a tour of the board,
I'll pick it up and move it around and
show you different pieces of it.
But trust me right now
that the built in LED, and
whatever we plug into PIN 13
are roughly the same thing.
And that is the setup piece where we
just kind of like, okay, this is gonna
be an output pin cuz sometimes you want
data coming into the Arduino board.
Sometimes you're saying, no,
I'm gonna tell something in the outside
world that things are happening, right?
And so you just kinda specifying that out
in the very beginning and setting that up.
And then we move into the loop which will
run as a comment very eloquently says
over and over again for ever, or until
you turn it off or unplugged the board.
Forever is yeah, a relative term to
which we do a digital write of high and
then we wait a second, and
then we do a digital write of low.
So turn it off, turn it on.
Send it 5 volts, don't send it 5 volts.
And we run that forever.
So in our Hello World here,
let's go ahead and we're gonna hit
this button here to upload the sketch.
Done uploading.
So here we've got our Arduino.
As you can see, I've got a little LED that
is blinking on and it's blinking off.
It's blinking on, it's blinking off.
The nice thing about anything
you use the Arduino IDE for
is that actual code is loaded
onto the device itself.
Now, depending on which device you use,
I think the R3 has about
32 kilobytes of memory.
There's not a lot of room
to do a lot of stuff,
which is why it cannot
fit all of Node.js on it.
There are projects that try to trim down
node until it's smallest possible format,
but I think even those are a little
too big for an Arduino, but
like I said it all applies either way.
And so I've got this little
built-in LED that's going on,
that's going off, and
if I unplug this and I plug it back in.
If I just unplug it and like just
take this power adapter over here or
a 9-volt battery and hook that up,
it will still blink on and off cuz that is
the effectively the firmware that's
running on it at this moment.
With that, if we look on our digital
pins they are all labeled, right?
So in this case we've got 0,
all the way up to 13,
those are the ones we mostly care
about today with a ground as well.
There is a little squiggle
line next to some of those,
that squiggle line is important.
I'll explain what pulse width
modulation is later, and
then we'll talk about why
the squiggles are important then.
And then, if we flip it over,
we've got our analog ports, right?
And these are just for
actual more traditional,
how much voltage is coming back into this?
As well we've also got a 5 volt,
and a 3.3 volt, and
some more ground over here as well.
And those are kinda the ones that we
are most concerned about today, right?
And so we've got a blinking LED at this
point, and so we know, if you see that,
means that everything is at least
hooked up and wired up correctly